# W12_16.10.2020

###### REFLECTIVE STATEMENT TO CONCLUDE S2A

It was evident to me from the beginning that the inquiry into the topics of post-digital literature and natural language processing was complex and deeply theoretical and philosophical. Despite the finite timeline of this studio and the steep learning curve in generative design, undertaking this project provided a sense of clarity towards a field of design worthwhile of pursuing and a topic of research that's interesting as an ongoing practice. The pressurized environment of this studio can be overwhelming, and it was in certain moments. But it was also necessary to expose methodologies in my design approach that were rigid.<Br>

A significant learning moment during this studio was the idea that outcomes are never the focus. The approach to creating a conventional 'graphic design' work often left me stagnant in this studio because the outcome is not always straight forward, and to determine an outcome is in many ways creating restrictions to the project. Instead, an iterative approach of multiple experimentations that lead to free-forming directions are often instances that lead to pleasant surprises. More importantly, the focus should always be the system that processes inputs into outputs. That system should be logical but requires numerous attempts of exploration to be refined.</br>

At the end of the timeline for this project, I find myself constantly revisiting the project code. Contemplating on making additions but wary of overcomplicating the project. It's an unusually liberating point to realize that almost anything is possible in the field of generative design and the open resources are certainly a great tool within the field.</br>

VISCERAL NONSENSE has the potential to expand into an ongoing interactive machine that lives on a server for access. An expansion for this project, once the system is refined to a more sophisticated and intentional state, is to begin a collection of archivable content — a series of juxtaposed words with its interpreted visceral counter-part. Translating the project into a catalogue of pairings and structuring it as a post-digital book feels appropriate as a way to formulate and legitimize a new language.</br>
There was an iteration of this project that was not able to be realised within the timeframe which was the incorporation of generative ambient sound. Iterations were attempted but the effects weren't providing any valuable additions to the project. However, I do believe that a sound component, if successful, could contribute to the user experience.</br>
